Add Opcodes details and parametrization required for measurements (#64)
imapp-pl/gas-cost-estimator: docs/opcodes_details.md

0x04,DIV,5,low,2,1,Integer division operation.,
0x05,SDIV,5,low,2,1,Signed integer division operation (truncated).,
0x06,MOD,5,low,2,1,Modulo remainder operation,
0x07,SMOD,5,low,2,1,Signed modulo remainder operation.,
0x08,ADDMOD,8,mid,3,1,Modulo addition operation.,
0x09,MULMOD,8,mid,3,1,Modulo multiplication operation.,
0x0b,SIGNEXTEND,5,low,2,1,Extend length of two’s complement signed integer.,
0x10,LT,3,verylow,2,1,Less-than comparison.,
0x11,GT,3,verylow,2,1,Greater-than comparison.,
0x12,SLT,3,verylow,2,1,Signed less-than comparison.,
0x13,SGT,3,verylow,2,1,Signed greater-than comparison.,
0x14,EQ,3,verylow,2,1,Equality comparison.,
0x15,ISZERO,3,verylow,1,1,Simple not operator.,
0x16,AND,3,verylow,2,1,Bitwise AND operation.,
0x17,OR,3,verylow,2,1,Bitwise OR operation,
0x18,XOR,3,verylow,2,1,Bitwise XOR operation.,
0x19,NOT,3,verylow,1,1,Bitwise NOT operation.,
0x1a,BYTE,3,verylow,2,1,Retrieve single byte from word,
0x1b,SHL,3,verylow,2,1,Left shift operation,
0x1c,SHR,3,verylow,2,1,Logical right shift operation,
0x1d,SAR,3,verylow,2,1,Arithmetic (signed) right shift operation,
```

They pop and push, or pop and peek and then modify stack in-place.

### Parameters

> 2 or 3 values on the stack, should not have impact on cost.

Reviewer: Many of these instruction are actually sensitive to the input arguments. One reason is that argument values may be out of the core instruction operational range in such case the output being some arbitrary values (e.g. left shift by large value produces 0 but this case may be handled separately in the implementation). Other reason is implementation complexity which may have multiple control-flow paths to follow (e.g. my division implementation actually has 3 different algorithms depending on the divisor size).

- **openethereum** - jumptable is initialized on first JUMP!

### Parameters

- first vs subsequent jumps, esp. for large jumptables. **TODO**: specify this better.
- size of jumptable

## `0x57,JUMPI`

`0x57,JUMPI,10,high,2,0,Conditionally alter the program counter.,`

JUMPI only differs by checking the condition on the stack.
Similar comments apply

### Parameters

- same as for JUMP
- whether the jump actually happens or not!

## `0x58,PC`

`0x58,PC,2,base,0,1,Get the value of the program counter prior to the increment corresponding to this instruction.,`

no comments here

## `0x59,MSIZE`

`0x59,MSIZE,2,base,0,1,Get the size of active memory in bytes.,`

no comments here, I can't imagine sizing the memory variable could depend on anything.

## `0x5a,GAS`

`0x5a,GAS,2,base,0,1,"Get the amount of available gas, including the corresponding reduction for the cost of this instruction.",`

Implementation differ due to different approaches to gas tracking, but I don't see any hidden parameters to account for.

## `0x5b,JUMPDEST`

`0x5b,JUMPDEST,1,,0,0,Mark a valid destination for jumps,`

- **geth** noop

> - **evmone** not a noop, flushes some gas calculations for the code block. Note - JUMPDEST is rewriten to a `evmone`-specific OPX_BEGINBLOCK

Reviewer: This is true for evmone/Advanced where gas cost and stack checks are done per instruction basic blocks. However, newer evmone version also has Baseline interpreter. If you are interested in checking the new one too I can rebase your instrumentation.

- **openethereum** noop

### Parameters

- the size of preceeding/following code block

## `0x60,PUSH1` and friends

`0x60 -- 0x7f,PUSH*,3,verylow,0,1,Place * byte item on stack. 0 < * <= 32,`

- **geth** `PUSH1` is a special case
- **evmone** `PUSH1`-`PUSH8` are special optimized cases. Also the push contents seem to be prepared in the analysis step
- **openethereum** -

### Parameters

- cost can be slightly different, if PUSHx doesn't have x bytes left in the code. Not sure if this is worth measuring though (**TODO**)

## `0x80,DUP1` and friends, cousin `0x90,SWAP1` and his friends too

`0x80 -- 0x8f,DUP*,3,verylow,*,* + 1,Duplicate *th stack item. 0 < * <= 16,`
`0x90 -- 0x9f,SWAP*,3,verylow,* + 1,* + 1,Exchange 1st and (* + 1)th stack items.,`

straightforward in all impls. No comments.

## `0xf3,RETURN` and `0xfd,REVERT`

`0xf3,RETURN,0,zero,2,0,Halt execution returning output data.,`
`0xfd,REVERT,,,2,0,End execution, revert state changes, return data mem[p…(p+s)),`

> - **evmone** - does a check_memory (**TODO** clarify with PB) and also does a micro-optimization for `size == 0`

Reviewer: The `RETURN` / `REVERT` works similar to other instructions that copy from/to memory so it needs memory bounds check and possibly charge more gas if case such memory size is not allocated yet.

The "micro-optimization" comes from a pedantic static analysis / instrumentation tools such that you are not allowed to produce invalid pointer even though you will never access it. But `RETURN` of size zero may be measured separately.

# Rundown of OPCODE details

This file contains a detailed rundown of all EVM OPCODEs concerned, with notes on their specifics and what to watch our for.

Based on `src/program_generator/data/opcodes.csv` and `src/program_generator/data/selection.csv`.

## Takeaways

See below for a detailed OPCODE-by-OPCODE description of parameters and concerns.

> This is a proposed list of things to tackle, in order from important to negligible:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a proposed list of things to tackle, in order of importance:
```
